William Rudenmalm

Experienced CTO and full-stack developer, foused on distributed
systems, databases and data-science. I can help out wi th everything
from infrastructure to customer facing front-ends.

Email: me@whn.se
Phone: +46 70 263 86 33
Github: https://github.com/williamhogman

## Engineering Director - Rocker (formerly Bynk) (Sep 2019 - Present)

Rocker is Sweden's leading challenger bank. With products in ecommerce
checkout services, consumer lending, debit cards.

I worked on key strategic initialive across the organization. Focusing
mostly on the companies' platform and infrastructure. As part of my
assignment I held interim lead positions in both the Infrastucture and
Elixir backend teams.

Technologies: Google Cloud Platform, Kubernetes, Prometheus, Scala,
Elixir, React Native, FluxCD, Helm, PostgreSQL.

## Software Engineering Consultant - Bolt (June 2019 - Aug 2019)

Worked with Bolt on their core ridesharing and dispatching
systems. Bolt is the leading ridesharing platform in Central Europe
and Africa. At Bolt I worked with the companies' AWS-hosted core
services and worked on core systems were scalability is key.

Technologies: Docker, TypeScript, Node.js, AWS, MySQL, Redis

## Software Engineering Consultant - Qualifier.AI (Apr 2019 - Jun 2019)

Qualifier.AI is an AI-based tool for automating the sourcing and
qualification part of the sales process. At Qualifier I wor ked on
containerizing and making serverless important parts of the
architecture.

Technologies: Ruby on Rails, Docker, Google Cloud Functions,
Serverless Framework


## CTO - Klira (formerly Zensum) (Jan 2017 - Apr 2019)

Klira is Sweden’s third largest broker for consumer loans. During my
tenure we grew the team from zero to 18 tech team members. My
responsibilities included from architecture to architecture to
compliance.  Our first challenge was in replacing the PHP legacy
backend with a new micro-service architecture with Kafka as the mes
sage broker, all hosted on Kubernetes. A key aspect of this replacing
the legacy system was in utilizing Kafka as an event -log so that
writes could be replicated and written to both systems.  We also
decided to replace the front-end systems with a “micro-service”-based
front-end architecture where each group of front-end use-cases, gets
its own front-end code-base. This way, if a single front-end system
turned out to be poorly written it could easily be replaced.  Metrics
and monitoring turned out to be important for us and the next step,
was to implement a modern and scalable mo nitoring solution that could
be used by in a DevOps fashion by the developer’s. I worked on setting
up a modern metrics stack based-on Prometheus and the accompanying JMX
agent.

Technologies: Kotlin, Java, Spring Boot, Prometheus, Kafka, Grafana, MySQL/MariaDB, Docker, Kubernetes, Redux, Reac t.JS, styled-components, Next.js, gatsby.js, Node.js Google Cloud Platform (GCP), AWS.

## VP Engineering - Aevy (Feb 2015 - Jan 2017)

Aevy built a search engine for finding candidates for recruiting. To
do this Aevy aggregates data from various sources on the web such as
Github, StackOverflow and Facebook.  My first task at Aevy was
replacing the Ember-based front-end with a new front-end based on
React.JS. As part of this w e went from a semi-interactive app to one
that is fully interactive and felt like a single page web app.  The
next challenge was Dockerizing the Ruby on Rails application and the
other services so that we could start using Doc ker both in
development and in production. After dockerizing the applications the
natural next step was to introduce Ansi ble so as to replace manual
operations for the infrastructure.  The next project was replacing the
basic queuing/worker system based on Redis/Sidekiq with RabbitMQ which
offers improved reliability, which allowed us to switch to a more
event rather than task driven architecture.  As we grew we wanted to
index more data and the next step scaling up our Elasticsearch cluster
from 3 to 15 nodes (each with 64gb of RAM). The cluster was operated using
Ansible and deployed to bare-metal servers.

After adding even more load our Postgres Cluster started performing
poorly and we had to design a solution for this. To s cale up beyond a
single database node, allowed by postgres, we decided to switch to
Cassandra for certain types of data, and I setup a cluster for this.
My final big project at Aevy was setting up a large scale email
validation system that used SMTP to milions of email-addr esses. To
achieve the speed we wanted we needed to use a large number of
connections and threads; so many in fact th at even Java could not
handle that kind of load. For this reason I used Elixir, a variant of
Erlang having better syntax.

Technologies: React.JS, Clojure, Ruby, Elixir, PostgreSQL, RabbitMQ, Ansible, Docker, Cassandra

## 5Monkeys - Software Engineer (Sep 2014 - Feb 2015)

5Monkeys is web agency helping its customers build and implement their
great ideas. I returned to 5Monkeys to continu e working on various
client projects. During this time I worked on an internal portal for a
magazine publisher, and an e-co mmerce storefront.

Technologies: Oracle, MySQL, Python

## Software Engineer (Short-term contract) - Tictail (May 2014 - Sep 2014)

Tictail (acq. by Shopify 2018) called themselves a “tumblr for
e-commerce”, the aim of the company was to make setting up an online
store easy and accessible to the masses. During my stay there I worked
on the ARPU-team, focused on incr easing the Average Revenue per
User. As part of this I was involved in building key-parts of
Tictail’s app-store. A platfor m that which 3rd parties to sell
applications on the companies platform. We greatly valued quality and
correctness both i n back-end and front-end parts of the application.

Technologies: AWS, MySQL, Python, flask-restful, JavaScript

## 5Monkeys - Software Engineer (Oct 2013 - May 2014)

5Monkeys is web agency helping its customers build and implement their
great ideas. I worked with a variety of client pr ojects all based on
the Django + Python stack. One of the clients I worked with a was a
peer to peer lending company, wh ere I built the platform where
lenders and borrowers could see each other’s tenders.

Technologies: Python, Django, MySQL

## Software Engineering Contractor - AgFlow (May 2013 - Oct 2013)

At Agflow we were some of the earliest users of React outside of
Facebook. As the only front-end developer I was respon sible for
building the front-end for our trading platform.  Technologies:
React.JS, Go, Javascript

# Education

- MSc. Computer Science (one year program; machine learning)
- BSc. Computer Science
